README.md, before:

[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1bVtTmbMLnfFBv44rPwmBFsHvpX7woDWn?usp=sharing)
![Deployment Pipeline](https://github.com/biosimulators/bio-compose/actions/workflows/pipeline.yml/badge.svg)
[![Documentation](https://readthedocs.org/projects/bio-compose/badge/?version=latest)](https://bio-compose.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)

# **BioCompose**: Create, execute, and introspect reproducible composite simulations of dynamic biological systems.
#### __This service utilizes separate containers for REST API management, job processing, and datastorage with MongoDB, ensuring scalable and robust performance.__

## **Documentation**: 

The complete `BioCompose` documentation can be found here: https://bio-compose.readthedocs.io/en/latest/

## **Getting Started**:

### _HIGH-LEVEL `bio_compose` API:_

The primary method of user-facing interaction for this service is done through the use of a high-level "notebook" api called `bio_check`. 
A convenient notebook demonstrating the functionality of this service is hosted on Google Colab and can be accessed by clicking the above "Open In Colab" badge.

Installation of this tooling can be performed using PyPI as such:

```bash
pip install bio-compose
```

#### Alternatively, **the REST API can be accessed via Swagger UI here: [https://biochecknet.biosimulations.org/docs](https://biochecknet.biosimulations.org/docs)**

## Smoldyn to Simularium conversion:

A convienient template notebook for converting the outputs of Smoldyn simulations to Simularium trajectories can be
[found here.](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/17uMMRq3L3KqRIXnezahM6TtOtJYK8Cu6#scrollTo=6n5Wf58hthFm)


### FOR DEVELOPERS:
Poetry is used as the environment manager. Poetry uses a globally referenced configuration whose cache setup may lead to permission errors when running `poetry install`. In the event that such errors exist, run the following:
```bash
poetry config cache-dir ~/poetry-cache
mkdir -p ~/poetry-cache
chmod -R u+w ~/poetry-cache

# then install the project:
poetry install
```

Commit message:

chore: refactor notebook deps and update verification tests

README.md, after:

[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1bVtTmbMLnfFBv44rPwmBFsHvpX7woDWn?usp=sharing)
![Deployment Pipeline](https://github.com/biosimulators/bio-compose/actions/workflows/pipeline.yml/badge.svg)
[![Documentation](https://readthedocs.org/projects/bio-compose/badge/?version=latest)](https://bio-compose.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)

# **BioCompose**: Create, execute, and introspect reproducible composite simulations of dynamic biological systems.
#### __This service utilizes separate containers for REST API management, job processing, and datastorage with MongoDB, ensuring scalable and robust performance.__

## **Documentation**: 

The complete `BioCompose` documentation can be found here: https://bio-compose.readthedocs.io/en/latest/

## **Getting Started**:

We recommend using poetry to install this tooling. Installation of this tooling can be performed using PyPI as such:

```bash
pip install bio-compose
```

#### Alternatively, **the REST API can be accessed via Swagger UI here: [https://biochecknet.biosimulations.org/docs](https://biochecknet.biosimulations.org/docs)**

### **_IMPORTANT NOTES_**:
- Poetry is used as the environment manager. Poetry uses a globally referenced configuration whose cache setup may lead to permission errors when running `poetry install`. In the event that such errors exist, run the following:
```bash
poetry config cache-dir ~/poetry-cache
mkdir -p ~/poetry-cache
chmod -R u+w ~/poetry-cache

# then install the project:
poetry install
```
- If you are using the jupyter notebooks found within `/tests`, you must link the environment (in this case `poetry`) to the notebook's kernel. Take the following steps to ensure such linking occurs:
```bash
# in the case of running (poetry config virtualenvs.in-project true), the env name will be .venv
poetry run python -m ipykernel install --user --name=$ENV_NAME --display-name "$ENV_NAME"
```

### Smoldyn to Simularium conversion:
A convenient template notebook for converting the outputs of Smoldyn simulations to Simularium trajectories can be
[found here.](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/17uMMRq3L3KqRIXnezahM6TtOtJYK8Cu6#scrollTo=6n5Wf58hthFm)
